Next up we have a really important topic in the world of objects.
The idea that we can add functions to our objects.
So we've seen that we can pass functions around we can store them in variables we can store them in
arrays we can pass them as arguments we can return them from a function.
We can also store them in objects.
Now why we would do this is a bigger topic that we will get to in pieces.
The first simplest reason we would do this is just to group functions together to group functionality
into some sort of cohesive unit.
So here's an example we have a math object that contains different functions that have to do with one
another.
So they're just grouped together and it's just that a nice organizational structure.
So we call these methods when we add a function into an object.
And we've been using the word method quite a bit when we do things like Hello Dot to uppercase.
This is a method.
And I mentioned this a couple of times earlier when we define a function on our own and we store it
in a variable or just a function declaration concept add equals function X comma Y return x plus y.
This right here is a function right there but when we added into an object and it lives on something
and we call it with the dot notation it is now a method.
So these are built in methods but now we'll see how to add our own methods to objects.
It's very straightforward where they saw it on the slides.
One question you might have is I thought strings were not objects I thought they were primitives.
They aren't strings just a value how do they have methods.
That is something we'll get to in due time so we're gonna put that aside for now.
But let's go ahead and define our object we'll call it math and I'll show you a couple of different
ways of adding functions in.
So right now I have a function called add I've used a function expression saved it to the variable add
I could just do this we saw that shorthand a couple videos ago I now have a object called math.
If I run my code over here we look at math the key is ADD and the value is the function stored in add.
So we have ADD is the key and then you can see a function right here if I want to call it I need to
use the dot notation math dot add and then pass in two numbers.
Now because of the way I wrote this I also could just call add and pass in values 2 and 5.
I'm calling this function from here versus if I do math dot add we're referencing the same function
it's the same variable or the same function in memory but I'm accessing it in a different way.
So it's pretty uncommon to define your function first and then add it into an object.
Normally you would do something like this add colon function and then add our arguments and put our
function expression right here.
So we'll just return x plus y and if we want another property if we want to do multiply we can add another
function at our arguments x or parameters X and Y and then we can return x times Y.
So now I have two properties both of which are functions.
I can still add in non functions.
I can add whatever I want to the object I could do numbers and that could be an array.
One two three four five if I run this code we look at math.
We now have two functions in here.
Add multiply and numbers which is an array and I use the exact same syntax.
Math numbers is how I access that array math that add is how I access that function but I'm not executing
it until I add the parents 5 and 6.
Same thing with Multiply multiply with no parental.
Gives me a reference to the function I'm getting the function if that makes sense.
I'm asking javascript does this thing exist.
Tell me about it.
Now I'm saying I know it exists.
Let's run it and we get forty two when I multiply six and seven.
So again right now this is just a nice way of grouping functions together putting them in an object
so that they're just in some sort of container rather than having a bunch of functions floating around.
I now have this math object which is the same idea as the existing math that we have in JavaScript.
We've seen a couple of these methods math dot random.
It's grouped instead of math instead of just having a floating random function we call.
We have a math object that contains a bunch of different functions or technically methods.
So the terminology one more time we have functions which we've seen on our own but when we add a function
as a property in an object we call it a method.
So these are two methods we'll soon see some additional things we can do instead of methods.
Some new constructs or new features.
The keyword this will come up very soon in this section which will make these methods more useful or
more flexible.
Right now it's just purely a container.
This object just stores functions and groups them together so that we can carry them around like a purse
or all of our belongings.
Next I'm going to show you a new syntax that makes it a little shorter to define methods and then we'll
go on and talk about the keyword.
This.